When I first starting using Python I used the full Anaconda installation, but after a while I found that I greatly preferred Miniconda.
Anaconda is great, it has a nice interface and quickly downloads 1500+ libraries that you can just click on to use.  You can read more
about Anaconda and get the download here: https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/

But, after a while I realized that Anaconda was taking up 17GB on my hard drive and after using it for a while, it
seemed that it was sometimes prone to getting hung up.  I took a leap and switched to Miniconda, which I find more
intuative, cleaner, and easier to use.  With Miniconda you have to install the libraries that you want, this makes
it smaller, and also more controlled.  So here are the instructions for installing Miniconda and some of the most
common libraries that Oceanographers will probably find helpful.  

Download Miniconda, Python 3.7 here: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html
Install the downloaded file.  I reboot a lot, so I just recommend a reboot after installing any software.

Next:
Windows:  From your start button, look for Anaconda, within that folder open 'Anaconda Prompt'.  You are done, skip to next section on installing libraries.
macOS: Open Launchpad, then open Terminal or iTerm.
Linux–CentOS: Open Applications - System Tools - Terminal.
Linux–Ubuntu: Open the Dash by clicking the upper left Ubuntu icon, then type “terminal”.

After opening Anaconda prompt (Terminal on Linux or macOS), choose any of the following methods:
Enter a command such as 'conda list'. If Anaconda is installed and working, this will display a list of installed packages and their versions.
Enter the command 'python'. This command runs the Python shell. If Anaconda is installed and working, the version information it displays when it starts up will include “Anaconda”. To exit the Python shell, enter the command quit().

Now you should have a python window open on your computer and we can install some libraries.  This will take a little while, so just be patient.
An important note about security. When you install libraries they need to be from a reputable source and you need to trust the person
or group that controls the software package. You also need to make sure that you don't have a typo in the library name.  
https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/python-package-installation-can-trigger-malicious-code/

type the following commands at your python prompt:
conda install xarray dask netCDF4 bottleneck scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn basemap h5py jupyter basemap-data-hires
conda install -c anaconda xlrd
conda install -c conda-forge palettable geopy cartopy
conda install -c pyviz holoviews bokeh
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
pip install beautifulsoup4

Once finished, let's open a Jupyter notebook:
At anaconda prompt type:
jupyter notebook
This will open a jupyter notebook in your browser.  From there you can open notebooks and run them.  It is probably easiest to navigate
to where you keep your code, create a new 'python' directory and organize your code into projects from there.  (This will also make using GitHub easier).







to launch notebook: at anaconda prompt type:
jupyter notebook
this will open a jupyter notebook in your chrome browser.  from there you can open
notebooks and run them.

